As I mentioned earlier,
we had our four basic categories inside of our application.
We've done a bunch with our POM file already to begin with,
and we really don't need to add any more dependencies in there right now,
so we've got one of the four out of the way.
The next one we'll go to is the view,
and our views are usually served up from underneath our src main
webapp directory in a traditional JSP application.
So I'm going to right‑click on our webapp directory and say,
New, Directory, WEB‑INF, hit Enter.
And underneath that, I want to create another directory and call this jsp,
Enter, and I want to create a new file underneath here and call it greeting.jsp.
And there are some wizards and stuff you can use to create this.
This is a simple page.
I'm actually going to open up our index.html page,
grab the body of this all out of here, and paste this into my greeting.jsp page.
I'm going to change the index to greeting,
and we're going to do something a little different now.
I'll close that index.html just to make sure that we don't make a mistake there.
I'm going to go to the h1 tag that we have up there
and change that to $, and save that.
We're going to pull this out of a request that we're
going to make to a controller.
So now we have our view taken care of.
We've created a JSP page that's going to go pull these attributes back out.
Let's go ahead and change the configuration of our application.
It's now a Spring Boot application.
Let's make it so it launches our DispatcherServlet how we're
normally used to in a Spring MVC application.
If I go to my ConferenceApplication class,
notice on line 8, it is our configuration class.
We're going to continue to take advantage of that, but we're going to
make this extends SpringBootServletInitializer. And what this will do
is launch our application with the desired configurations we're used
to using inside of a web app.
So it's going to set up an internal view resource resolver. We're
going to talk about all of that stuff later.
It's going to resolve JSP pages, set up JSTL for us,
basically launch stuff the way we want to.
We'll break all of these pieces down.
We've just got to get something out there for you to
use so that we can talk about it.
So let's save this.
There's nothing else to do here, and then open up our
application.properties file, and that's underneath src main resources. If
you're using the ultimate version of IntelliJ or Spring STS,
you actually get some context‑sensitive help inside of here. So
I'm going to type spring.mvc.view.prefix.
And we want to put in that directory we just created,
WEB‑INF/jsp/, and don't forget that trailing slash. And then we
want to do spring.mvc.view.suffix, and we want to have .jsp, and
also don't forget the .jsp on that.
So save this. Now this is the other part of our configuration
that tells it where to one, look for JSP pages, and two, what
the extension for those are.
If we were using other templated tools or when we
get into the Thymeleaf section, this will be a different configuration.
So now that this is all set up,
we can move to the Java portion of our application or where we
start doing things inside of our Java code.
Let's go up to our src main java directory and click on
our com.pluralsight.conference package,
right‑click and say New, Java Class. And the way IntelliJ works, we want to type
in controller., so it's going to add a new package for us.
I'm going to call this the GreetingController, and hit
Enter. It will pull this class up for us.
Now we're going to go through all of these pieces and explain what all of this
does, but for now, we want to type @Controller and have it select that and
import that class for us, and we can put a method signature down here that does
what we want to do inside of our applications.
We're going to start off by saying @GetMapping.
And when we request the URL of greeting,
we want it to go through and call this method.
So we'll say public String greeting.
This method name could be anything.
I just chose greeting to keep it consistent, but it could be foo, it could
be bar, it could be greeting, it could be say hello.
It doesn't matter what the method name is. The GetMapping on
line 9 matters. The method name does not.
So, now we could pass in some parameters here, and we want to pass in a
map, and that map we want to be a String Object pair,
and we're going to give it the parameter name of model. Now inside
of here, this is how we can pass attributes back through our model.
So we'll say model.put. And for our key, because it's just a simple
map, we'll say message.
Remember,
that was the variable name we had in our JSP page. And for the object, we're
going to put a string, and I'm going to put in Hello Bryan.
Feel free to replace that with your own name.
And from here, we're going to return the string greeting.
Now, what this does is when we ask for the URL/greeting.
It's going to call this method, put this message into the model,
and then that return line on line 14's going to go out
and look for a JSP page named greeting.
Those are the two variables we put in our application.properties.
If this finds everything and executes correctly, it will then return
that JSP page with these values rendered for us, so those four files
we just worked with. Let's save this. I'll make this full screen so
you can see everything.
It actually fit in that one window.
But this is everything that we needed to create our
controller and return that value for us.
Now that we have this in place, let's go ahead and start up our server.
When this launches, it will take us to our index page that we have created.
And then we can type in our greeting URL.
So now we can go here and type in greeting and hit Enter. It'll say Hello Bryan.
So we got all those pieces in place. To reiterate our packaging
and the way we talked about our four areas,
we had our Java code, which contained our controllers, our greeting controller,
some configuration in our properties, our actual webapp configuration,
which we're going to expand on all of this as we build out
the course, and our JSP pages that contained our view. Pretty
easy when we broke it all down.
Now that we've gone through all of that configuration work, it
literally just allows us to put in little pieces of our application and build it out as we go.